README.md, before:

# 100 Days of Code
---
![Orange Azalea Blossoms](https://github.com/Strigida/100-Days-of-Code-May-2020/blob/master/IMG_4044.jpeg?raw=true "Sherbert Colored Azaleas")
---

---
## Day 1: Javascript Essentials
*5/1/2020*

---
Started my 100 Days of Code by going through new modules in freeCodeCamp.org ’s JavaScript portion, as there’s a few new lessons on the site since I finished up the basics portion, there.

---
## Day 2: JavaScript, Continued
*5/2/2020*

---
Today I brushed up on JavaScript `import` and `export` functions, as well as module script creation and promises. Thank you, freeCodeCamp.org !

**Note:**
Practice promises.

---
## Days 3 - 5: JavaScript, Continued
*5/3/2020 - 5/5/2020*

---
Worked from freeCodeCamp.org, still going through the new material added since my previous run-though of the course, including starting learning regular expressions (regex).

---
## Day 6: JavaScript Regular Expressions
*05/06/2020*

---
Worked entirely on freeCodeCamp.org finishing up regexs (JavaScript).

---
## Day 7: New Project Started
*5/7/2020*

---
An idea based on thoughts I've had since the pandemic lockdown suddenly took form, so I started a new project in HTML5 and JavaScript as a prototype. Eventually this will need to be multi-platform (mobile, web, VR/AR/MR), and I may move the demo to Unity once I've worked through the prototype a bit.

---
## Day 8: More JavaScript
*5/8/2020*

---
Today's hour of code was spent in freeCodeCamp.org on debugging and arrays!
I realized I still need to brush up on some JavaScript functionality to get what I want out of my prototype, so back to the grind!

---
## Day 9: My First Markdown
*5/11/2020*

---
Today is all about learning markdown, and this is my first markdown document.

I primarily spent today's hour of code reading up on the subject courtesy of links recommended by the talented [Caleb Wells](https://calebwells.dev), creator of [A Swiftly Tilting Planet](https://github.com/calebrwells/A-Swiftly-Tilting-Planet), and creating a markdown sheet to guide my documentation for further projects.

I also spent time on freeCodeCamp.org, brushing up on JavaScript array functionalities, such as `.splice`, and `.slice`.

---
## Day 10: Updates and Arrays
*5/12/2020*

---
Since all my previous README's and updates were a) scattered over multiple documents, and b) in multiple files (including .txt files) I spent the first half of today's time updating this document with the information from previous days. I'm much happier with how my files look, now.

With my remaining few minutes I got onto freeCodeCamp.org to delve into arrays again, and learned about the spread operator (`[...arr]`), in conjunciton with the `.push()` function.

**Note:**
Practice `while() {}` loops.

---
## Day 11: Modifying Arrays, and Interview Prep
*5/13/2020*

---
Spent the first part of my hour researching web dev interview questions, and then brainstorming programatic answers. Afterward, I went back to freeCodeCamp.org to finish out the hour playing with spread operators (`[...array]`) and `.indexOf()`!

---
## Day 12: Objects
*5/14/2020*

---
Worked with key - value pairs (`name: 'Hermione Granger'`) in objects, including iterating through keys in an object, or checking if an object has a property.

---
## Day 13: Web Dev Interview
*5/15/2020*

![Overhead Image of Interview](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Strigida/100-Days-of-Code-May-2020/master/undraw_interview_rmcf.png "Interview")
---
Today I had a phone interview for a web developer position, which went fairly well. The job was slightly out of my comfort level, so I thought it would be a good learning experience. All-in-all I enjoyed it, and got some good adviece from the interviewer: 
Work on lots of little projects of different types, to get a feel for what you like!
It's advice I plan to take!

**Note:**
The above illustration was obviously pre-pandemic, so forgive the subjects for not wearing PPE or respecting the 6' rule. lol

---
## Day 14: Basic JavaScript Algorithms
*5/17/2020*

---
Today's hour of code was spent on learning some basic algorithms; something my fomal degree didn't spend much time on. So far, I'm enjoying the challenge greatly, and can see it will make me a much more effective programmer!

---
## Day 15: Technical UX Interview
*5/18/2020*

---
![Data Structures](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Strigida/100-Days-of-Code-May-2020/master/undraw_software_engineer_lvl5.png "Software Engineer Designing Data Structure")

---
I spent a bit over 2 hours working on a design challenge as part of an interview for a Technical UX Design postion contracted to a game company. The job is all about HUDs, menus, and interfaces, and was a lot of fun to work on! 
I got to create a data structure, as well as a function that delivers weapons combos based on their combined damage ratings. 

I won't know how I did for a while, but it was a great experience, and my 100 Days of Code definitely gave me an edge I didn't have, before! Onward!

---
## Day 16: Algorithm Practice
*5/19/2020*

---
I'm back to my algorithm practice, today, and was presented some fun problems to solve by freeCodeCamp.org! Among other things, I got to put `string.length` to practice, as well as a type of for loop that itterates though arrays (`for (word in array) {}`)!

I'm quite glad to have started this hundred days of code, as I feel like I'm progressing faster than I have before! It feels good to get back into the code, after a year+ hiatus!

---
## Day 17: Algorithms
*5/20/2020*

---
Today I worked on an algorithm to find the largest number in a nested array of numbers. For loops (`for (let i = 0; i < array.length; i++) {}`) were absolutely invaluable, and I'm quite glad to be getting extra practice using them in lots of scenarios. 
I learned the proper syntax to access items in a nested array, as well, by using square brackets to indicate an index nested within multiple arrays: `array[nestedArray][subNestedArray]`.

Solving today's freeCodeCamp.org algorithm problem took a bit of re-writing and googling, but I was gratified to realize I was on the right track originally, but with incorrect syntax. I've found that daily practice helps both with overall code logic, as well as learning the language at hand!

---
## Day 18: Algorithms
*5/21/2020*

---
Did an algorithm to find out if the end of a `string` was the same as a given argument (returning `true` or `false`), and one that repeated a `string` a given number of times, unless the number was negative (in which case it returned an empty `string`);

It all went significantly faster, today, so the algorithm work is definitely improving my skills!
I think I'll start the project I've been considering after I've finished working through the algorithm practice on freeCodeCamp.org.

---
## Day 19: Algorithms
*5/22/2020*

---
Similar practice, and seeing improvement in the amount of time it takes me to solve a problem! Also finding it's rather fun!

---
## Day 20: Web App
*5/23/2020*

---
I decided to do something fun for a couple of days, and make a pseudo fortune telling app with a click button that feeds in a random line. I spent today working on the HTML and .css portions, and will play with the JavaScript tomorrow and the next day! Hurrah!

---
## Day 21: Web App
*5/24/2020*

---
Decided to re-design and re-work the HTML and .css portions I created yesterday, as making the page a grid-layout will make things much easier in the long run. If I decide to do a mobile version at some point I'll need to tackle that separately. 

---
## Day 22 and 23: Web App
*5/25/2020 - 5/26/2020*

---
Continued work on the HTML and css of the website facing, as well as some art pieces for the app. It's coming along nicely, and I'm designing it based on an illuminated manuscript page! One more day, and I should be able to move on to app functionality. In the mean time, I'm enjoying doing something I'm a bit more familiar with!

---
## Day 24: Web App and Algorithms
*5/28/2020*

---
I missed the small challenges in the algorithm section of freeCodeCamp.org, so spent a little time there, today, as well as working on the visual side of the web app I'm working on, at the moment. I'm taking my time on it, as I do enjoy the design side of things :)

---
## Day 25: Algorithms, ect.
*5/29/2020*

---
Finished an algorithm I had to leave undone last night, and worked on web app visuals.

---
## Days 26 - 38: In Support of Black Lives Matter
*5/30/2020 - 6/10/2020*
![Black Lives Matter](https://live.staticflickr.com/8653/16014096015_6b1f4377ec_b.jpg "Black Lives Matter Protest Image")

---
Since the start of the Black Lives Matter (BLM) movement, I've decided to go radio-silent on my coding exploits, as I would prefer to leave air space for those who should be heard. I will re-tweet other's words, but as a white person, my words are not the ones needed, right now. I'll use my white privelege to listen, support, and elevate the voices of the BLM conversation.

On code subjects, though, I'm still working on the advice app. I've finished the visual aspects using HTML5 and CSS, and have moved on to the functionality, using JavaScript. 
I'm using an internal script, right now, to get things started, and have got the button functional. Tomorrow I'll work on getting it to put the advice I want where I want it! I'm excited!

---
## Day 39: After This Break
*6/18/2020*

---
After taking some time to process what's going on in the world, and in my own life, I'm back to working on the advice app!

Today I got the button function into an external script, and made it change images back and forth using: `document.getElementByID('id').src="sourcefile"`, and am very pleased with functionality, so far! I made some minor style changes while I was at it.

Tomorrow, I'll add text changing functionality to the button `onclick`, as well, in the advice text location.

After that, I want to look into using APIs to bring images and text in from external sources, which is a little scary and exciting, as I haven't played with them before!

---

Commit message:

Finished Advice App
There are links within the html that apply to my portfolio website.

README.md, after:

# 100 Days of Code
---
![Orange Azalea Blossoms](https://github.com/Strigida/100-Days-of-Code-May-2020/blob/master/IMG_4044.jpeg?raw=true "Sherbert Colored Azaleas")
---

---
## Day 1: Javascript Essentials
*5/1/2020*

---
Started my 100 Days of Code by going through new modules in freeCodeCamp.org ’s JavaScript portion, as there’s a few new lessons on the site since I finished up the basics portion, there.

---
## Day 2: JavaScript, Continued
*5/2/2020*

---
Today I brushed up on JavaScript `import` and `export` functions, as well as module script creation and promises. Thank you, freeCodeCamp.org !

**Note:**
Practice promises.

---
## Days 3 - 5: JavaScript, Continued
*5/3/2020 - 5/5/2020*

---
Worked from freeCodeCamp.org, still going through the new material added since my previous run-though of the course, including starting learning regular expressions (regex).

---
## Day 6: JavaScript Regular Expressions
*05/06/2020*

---
Worked entirely on freeCodeCamp.org finishing up regexs (JavaScript).

---
## Day 7: New Project Started
*5/7/2020*

---
An idea based on thoughts I've had since the pandemic lockdown suddenly took form, so I started a new project in HTML5 and JavaScript as a prototype. Eventually this will need to be multi-platform (mobile, web, VR/AR/MR), and I may move the demo to Unity once I've worked through the prototype a bit.

---
## Day 8: More JavaScript
*5/8/2020*

---
Today's hour of code was spent in freeCodeCamp.org on debugging and arrays!
I realized I still need to brush up on some JavaScript functionality to get what I want out of my prototype, so back to the grind!

---
## Day 9: My First Markdown
*5/11/2020*

---
Today is all about learning markdown, and this is my first markdown document.

I primarily spent today's hour of code reading up on the subject courtesy of links recommended by the talented [Caleb Wells](https://calebwells.dev), creator of [A Swiftly Tilting Planet](https://github.com/calebrwells/A-Swiftly-Tilting-Planet), and creating a markdown sheet to guide my documentation for further projects.

I also spent time on freeCodeCamp.org, brushing up on JavaScript array functionalities, such as `.splice`, and `.slice`.

---
## Day 10: Updates and Arrays
*5/12/2020*

---
Since all my previous README's and updates were a) scattered over multiple documents, and b) in multiple files (including .txt files) I spent the first half of today's time updating this document with the information from previous days. I'm much happier with how my files look, now.

With my remaining few minutes I got onto freeCodeCamp.org to delve into arrays again, and learned about the spread operator (`[...arr]`), in conjunciton with the `.push()` function.

**Note:**
Practice `while() {}` loops.

---
## Day 11: Modifying Arrays, and Interview Prep
*5/13/2020*

---
Spent the first part of my hour researching web dev interview questions, and then brainstorming programatic answers. Afterward, I went back to freeCodeCamp.org to finish out the hour playing with spread operators (`[...array]`) and `.indexOf()`!

---
## Day 12: Objects
*5/14/2020*

---
Worked with key - value pairs (`name: 'Hermione Granger'`) in objects, including iterating through keys in an object, or checking if an object has a property.

---
## Day 13: Web Dev Interview
*5/15/2020*

![Overhead Image of Interview](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Strigida/100-Days-of-Code-May-2020/master/undraw_interview_rmcf.png "Interview")
---
Today I had a phone interview for a web developer position, which went fairly well. The job was slightly out of my comfort level, so I thought it would be a good learning experience. All-in-all I enjoyed it, and got some good adviece from the interviewer: 
Work on lots of little projects of different types, to get a feel for what you like!
It's advice I plan to take!

**Note:**
The above illustration was obviously pre-pandemic, so forgive the subjects for not wearing PPE or respecting the 6' rule. lol

---
## Day 14: Basic JavaScript Algorithms
*5/17/2020*

---
Today's hour of code was spent on learning some basic algorithms; something my fomal degree didn't spend much time on. So far, I'm enjoying the challenge greatly, and can see it will make me a much more effective programmer!

---
## Day 15: Technical UX Interview
*5/18/2020*

---
![Data Structures](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Strigida/100-Days-of-Code-May-2020/master/undraw_software_engineer_lvl5.png "Software Engineer Designing Data Structure")

---
I spent a bit over 2 hours working on a design challenge as part of an interview for a Technical UX Design postion contracted to a game company. The job is all about HUDs, menus, and interfaces, and was a lot of fun to work on! 
I got to create a data structure, as well as a function that delivers weapons combos based on their combined damage ratings. 

I won't know how I did for a while, but it was a great experience, and my 100 Days of Code definitely gave me an edge I didn't have, before! Onward!

---
## Day 16: Algorithm Practice
*5/19/2020*

---
I'm back to my algorithm practice, today, and was presented some fun problems to solve by freeCodeCamp.org! Among other things, I got to put `string.length` to practice, as well as a type of for loop that itterates though arrays (`for (word in array) {}`)!

I'm quite glad to have started this hundred days of code, as I feel like I'm progressing faster than I have before! It feels good to get back into the code, after a year+ hiatus!

---
## Day 17: Algorithms
*5/20/2020*

---
Today I worked on an algorithm to find the largest number in a nested array of numbers. For loops (`for (let i = 0; i < array.length; i++) {}`) were absolutely invaluable, and I'm quite glad to be getting extra practice using them in lots of scenarios. 
I learned the proper syntax to access items in a nested array, as well, by using square brackets to indicate an index nested within multiple arrays: `array[nestedArray][subNestedArray]`.

Solving today's freeCodeCamp.org algorithm problem took a bit of re-writing and googling, but I was gratified to realize I was on the right track originally, but with incorrect syntax. I've found that daily practice helps both with overall code logic, as well as learning the language at hand!

---
## Day 18: Algorithms
*5/21/2020*

---
Did an algorithm to find out if the end of a `string` was the same as a given argument (returning `true` or `false`), and one that repeated a `string` a given number of times, unless the number was negative (in which case it returned an empty `string`);

It all went significantly faster, today, so the algorithm work is definitely improving my skills!
I think I'll start the project I've been considering after I've finished working through the algorithm practice on freeCodeCamp.org.

---
## Day 19: Algorithms
*5/22/2020*

---
Similar practice, and seeing improvement in the amount of time it takes me to solve a problem! Also finding it's rather fun!

---
## Day 20: Web App
*5/23/2020*

---
I decided to do something fun for a couple of days, and make a pseudo fortune telling app with a click button that feeds in a random line. I spent today working on the HTML and .css portions, and will play with the JavaScript tomorrow and the next day! Hurrah!

---
## Day 21: Web App
*5/24/2020*

---
Decided to re-design and re-work the HTML and .css portions I created yesterday, as making the page a grid-layout will make things much easier in the long run. If I decide to do a mobile version at some point I'll need to tackle that separately. 

---
## Day 22 and 23: Web App
*5/25/2020 - 5/26/2020*

---
Continued work on the HTML and css of the website facing, as well as some art pieces for the app. It's coming along nicely, and I'm designing it based on an illuminated manuscript page! One more day, and I should be able to move on to app functionality. In the mean time, I'm enjoying doing something I'm a bit more familiar with!

---
## Day 24: Web App and Algorithms
*5/28/2020*

---
I missed the small challenges in the algorithm section of freeCodeCamp.org, so spent a little time there, today, as well as working on the visual side of the web app I'm working on, at the moment. I'm taking my time on it, as I do enjoy the design side of things :)

---
## Day 25: Algorithms, ect.
*5/29/2020*

---
Finished an algorithm I had to leave undone last night, and worked on web app visuals.

---
## Days 26 - 38: In Support of Black Lives Matter
*5/30/2020 - 6/10/2020*
![Black Lives Matter](https://live.staticflickr.com/8653/16014096015_6b1f4377ec_b.jpg "Black Lives Matter Protest Image")

---
Since the start of the Black Lives Matter (BLM) movement, I've decided to go radio-silent on my coding exploits, as I would prefer to leave air space for those who should be heard. I will re-tweet other's words, but as a white person, my words are not the ones needed, right now. I'll use my white privelege to listen, support, and elevate the voices of the BLM conversation.

On code subjects, though, I'm still working on the advice app. I've finished the visual aspects using HTML5 and CSS, and have moved on to the functionality, using JavaScript. 
I'm using an internal script, right now, to get things started, and have got the button functional. Tomorrow I'll work on getting it to put the advice I want where I want it! I'm excited!

---
## Day 39: After This Break
*6/18/2020*

---
After taking some time to process what's going on in the world, and in my own life, I'm back to working on the advice app!

Today I got the button function into an external script, and made it change images back and forth using: `document.getElementByID('id').src="sourcefile"`, and am very pleased with functionality, so far! I made some minor style changes while I was at it.

Tomorrow, I'll add text changing functionality to the button `onclick`, as well, in the advice text location.

After that, I want to look into using APIs to bring images and text in from external sources, which is a little scary and exciting, as I haven't played with them before!

---
## Day 40 - 46: Advice App Finished!
*6/19/2020 - 6/25/2020*

---
I finished up my web app, "The Advisor", and put it up on my website. Here's the link: http://www.lizaltmiller.com

I added in a navigator and styles matching the rest of my portfolio page, adjusted the styles of the page itself further (clean flat colors, easy-to-read yet decorative fonts, apropriate imagery), and uploaded it. It's live, and I'm pleased!

Now, on to the next project!

---
